# Seven5: Develop

<nav>
    <ul>
        <li>[Intro](index.html)</li>
        <li>[Install](install.html)</li>
        <li>[Develop](develop.html)</li>
        <li>[Pontificate](pontificate.html)</li>
    </ul>
</nav>

## Project Layout 

**Seven5** uses conventions, not configuration, to manage how your web 
application will work.  During development, you should never write a 
configuration file.  Simple deployments should also be possible without any
configuration files.

Here is the file and directory structure of a **Seven5** project called `foo` with 
a raw mongrel2 handler called `bar` and a REST service called `baz`.  Files
are marked with '*' and unix domain sockets are marked with '**'

<pre>

	foo
	 |
	 +-- bar_handler.go*
	 |
	 +-- baz_rest.go*
	 |
	 +-- foo_test.sqlite*
	 |
	 +--mongrel2
			|
			+-- log
			|    |
			|    +-- access.log*
			|    |
			|    +-- error.log*
			|    |
			|    +-- seven5.log*
			|    
			+-- run
			|    |
			|    +-- mongrel2.pid*
			|    |
			|    +-- run_control**
			|
			+-- static
			     |
			     +-- index.html*
			     
</pre>

* The "code" of the web application is contained in `bar_handler.go` and
`baz_rest.go`.  

* `foo_test.sqlite` is generated by **Seven5**.  It contains sql data (not sql
statements in text form) that is needed for mongrel2 to 
connect to the `foo` application in test mode.

* The `mongrel2` directory contains directories related to mongrel2 operation.

* `access.log` is a standard HTTP access log, generated by mongrel2

* `error.log` is the mongrel2 error log, it should only contain **Seven5** or
`foo` if something is wrong with the **Seven5** infrastructure.

* `seven5.log` is generated by the **Seven5** infrastructure and the `foo`
web application.  Log messages written in the application code go to this file.

* `mongrel2.pid` is present when mongrel2 is running.  Generated by mongrel2 
with its own process id.

* `run_control` is a unix-domain socket that can be used to give mongrel2
commands. **Seven5** uses this to restart the server when necessary, such as
when 

* `static` is a directory that is visible to mongrel2 for standard (non
dynamic) serving of files.  Anything put in this directory will be served
by mongrel2 unchanged.  The web server will be chrooted to this directory.

* `index.html` is an example static html file.  